So we got our database running.
We got our app running, like to put
all these to the left like that.
Let's get started with Prisma, okay.
With Prisma, it's actually pretty simple.
We just need to npm install
@prisma/client, so we'll install that.
And then we're gonna do another
npm install of just prisma.
But the reason I'm doing this several
because I want this to be a devDependency,
so I'll say save-dev.
So Prisma the tool, and
then Prisma the SDK.
So you got the @prisma client, and
you got the prisma that's a save-dev.
Cool, and then from there you
just wanna run npx prisma init.
Hit Enter.
And that's just gonna scaffold out a few
things for us, we can go check it out.
So first thing it's gonna do is gonna
create a folder called prisma with a file
in it called schema.prisma.
There's a plugin for this file, if you
want it to look nice, it's called prisma.
So go install that, otherwise,
it's just gonna look bad.
And you won't get an icon,
you won't get that icon right there.
If you want that icon,
go install the extension.
So we got that.
So go into that file,
one thing we wanna change,
you can see where it says PostgreSQL,
we don't want this to be PostgreSQL.
We want this to be mysql, like that.
And then the other thing we wanna
add here in the datasource db,
is we want to add a relationMode = and
then put prisma.
Don't worry about that,
that's something advanced.
If we get to it, I'll talk about it, but
you don't really need
to know what it means.
You could look it up from the docs if you
want, but yeah, just put prisma there,
otherwise this is not
gonna work on PlanetScale.
TLDR just means prisma is gonna handle
our relationships and not the database.
How the service database works,
prevents it from handling relationships
like it would normally would.
Cool, the other thing we need to do
is we need to add a database URL
in our environment variable file,
so this thing could pick it up.
And this is the tool that I said that is
going to automatically load the .env file,
whereas Next.js loads the .env.local file.
And in fact, it already created one,
it created a .env file here,
with a Postgres URL in it.
We don't want that Postgres URL,
so we can get rid of that.
Instead, we're gonna just add
our local host MySQL one,
which will be, yeah, it's 3309, but
I don't know why it's escaping
me with a port will be.
I'm sorry, not the port, the protocol.
All right, they're gonna have it here.
So what we wanna do is basically
add our database like this.
I'm gonna blow that up so you can see it.
Just MySQL, in this case, 127,
that's just localhost, 3309, and
then it has to be the same name as
the database that's on PlanetScale.
So in my case it will be mood.
So I'm just going to copy this and
put it in my .env, like that.
Get rid of database name and put mood.
I think it works if you put localhost
here too, but, I don't know, we'll see.
And remember, your database name,
whatever database you have on Prisma.
Cool, everybody following me so far?
All righty, and then what we wanna do
is just make, we just wanna go on and
actually make some schemas, so we can
push this up to our database and sync it.
The sweet thing about using Prisma and
PlanetScale is that they
both kinda do similar jobs.
So Prisma actually does
migration management too, and
it kinda makes it seamless.
But PlanetScale also does migration
management, so Prisma knows that.
So what it does is it opts out of
doing any migration management for
you if you're doing PlanetScale, and
instead just let PlanetScale do it.
So it actually becomes really easier to
work with Prisma because you don't have to
worry about any migration CLI commands.
You just push it to PlanetScale, and
PlanetScale will figure out
the migrations for you.
Whereas if you use another
database that wasn't PlanetScale,
you would have to use Prisma to
figure out those migrations for you.
Which is actually still really easy, but
that's just one thing to keep in mind.
So if you follow another tutorial
where they use another database,
you might find yourself
doing Prisma migrate.
You will never do that with PlanetScale,
you'll never run Prisma migrate.
You'll just say push this to the database,
and
PlanetScale itself will
figure out the migrations.
Let's just write a simple
version of our user.
So to do that is really simple,
we just say model User, like so.
It's a very simple syntax, it looks
like objects, it looks like GraphQL.
If you know any language,
this is gonna look familiar.
So model User, we're gonna give it an ID,
that's gonna be type string.
We're gonna say this is the ID
field by using this directive @id.
And then because we don't wanna
have to create the IDs ourself,
we're gonna ask
the database to do that for
us by giving it a default,
which is kinda like a function.
So you have a function there.
And then we can say we want
that to default to uuid.
So uuid just stands for
universally unique identifier,
which just means it's a string that's
almost guaranteed to be unique.
I mean, nothing can be guaranteed
to be unique, but, yeah,
I can go to this generator right here.
Every time I refresh the page,
I get a new uuid, so this is a uuid.
So the database will just create one for
us every time for
the ID versus us having to manage
that ourselves, that's all I'm doing.
You don't have to use uuid.
I think they have CUID as well,
which is something very similar.
You can also just use the integer if you
want and just make this go up by one,
auto increment, but
I hate that, I don't know why.
I hate seeing IDs that are just one,
two, three, I don't know why,
I just can't stand it.
So I think it's also a security risk too.
It's like, now I know which one you were.
You're number 3 or 300,
I don't know, it's weird.
All right, we'll just put that for now and
then we'll come back and make the schema,
let's just see if all this works,
we didn't break anything, how about that?
So what we'll do is, one,
make sure our PlanetScale is running,
which mine still is.
Make sure we got that environment
available, hopefully that's right.
We have our schema here,
all we have to do now
in another terminal window is
just run npx prisma db push.
And viola,
couple things happen here, so what?
Basically, I mean, it tells us right here,
loaded the environment variable.
It loaded the schema.
It saw the data source was MySQL and
that's the URL to it.
And then it synced our local schema with
the database that we have on PlanetScale.
And that's what it did, your database
is now in sync with your Prisma schema.
And then lastly, the most important part,
is that it generated an SDK
based off of our schema that we can
now import from @prisma/client.
So it literally went and generated that so
that the types for that SDK, and
the methods on that SDK, match the models
that we created in our schema.
So this means I can go into the schema and
do prisma.user and it will have the same
fields and expectations on
it as the user in my schema.
If I make a model for airplanes,
I can do prisma.airplanes, and
it will be type check.
So it will generate a new SDK for
you every time you push your
schema up to PlanetScale.
You can also manually do it just
by running npx prisma generate and
it will manually do it for you as well.
So we can double-check this.
If we go back to PlanetScale, this is
where it's really cool, it already did it.
You can see it's like, yeah,
somebody just added a user table here, and
here's all the SQL you did not
have to write because of Prisma.
So you would have had to written that SQL
yourself if you didn't have Prisma, right?
So now we have that, And
it's only on this branch.
So if I view these branches,
if I go to the main branch,
that main branch doesn't have that schema.